developers.libra.org/docs/policies/privacy-policy.md, before:

---
id: privacy-policy
title: Privacy Policy
---

<!-- hide the edit button --><style>.edit-page-link {display: none !important; visibility: hidden !important;}</style>

 This website is owned and operated by the Libra Association (“Libra,” “us,” “our”). This Data Policy applies to the Libra Association website (“Website”). This Data Policy describes our practices for handling your information collected in connection with this Website.

## Collection of Information
 When you interact with us through our Website, we may collect or receive the following of information:

* _**Information you provide directly to us.**_ We may collect information from you such as your name and email address, such as when you subscribe for more information on the Website. 
* _**Information we collect automatically.**_ We may collect certain information automatically when you use our Website, such as your Internet protocol (IP) address, mobile device identifier, browser type, operating system, Internet service provider, pages that you visit before and after using the Website, the date and time of your visit, information about the links you click and pages you view within the Website, and other standard server log information. We may use cookies, pixel tags, local shared objects, and similar technologies to automatically collect this information. By using the Website, you consent to our use of cookies and similar technologies. More information on our use of cookies can be found in our Cookies Policy.


## How We Use Information
 Information collected by our Website will help inform the design and implementation of Website. We may also use information you provide us to operate and improve the functionality of the Website. 

## How We Share Information 
 We may share your information with certain third parties as set forth below: 

* _**Authorized third-party vendors and service providers.**_ We share your information with third-party vendors and service providers who support our website, such as by providing technical infrastructure services, business analytics, and data processing. 
* _**Partners.**_ We may share information with the entities that make up the Libra Association (“Partners”). For more information about our Partners, look at the “Association” tab. 
* _**Legal and safety purposes.**_ We may disclose information to respond to subpoenas, court orders, legal process, law enforcement requests, legal claims or government inquiries, detect fraud, and to protect and defend the rights, interests, safety, and security of the website, our affiliates, owner, users, or the public.
* _**Business transfers.**_ We may share your information in connection with a substantial corporate transaction, such as the sale of a website, a merger, consolidation, asset sale, or in the unlikely event of bankruptcy. 
* _**With your consent.**_ We may share information for any other purposes disclosed to you at the time we collect the information and pursuant to your consent. 

If you access third-party services, such as Facebook, Google, or Twitter, through the Website to share information about your experience on the Website with others, these services are outside our control. These third-party services may be able to collect information about you, including information about your activity on the Website, and they may notify your connections on the third-party services about your use of the Website, in accordance with their own privacy policies. 

## Our Legal Bases For Processing Information
 We rely on a variety of legal bases to process data, including: 

* as necessary to fulfill our Terms;
* consistent with your consent, which you can revoke at any time;
* as necessary to comply with our legal obligations;
* to protect your vital interests, or those of others;
* as necessary in the public interest; and
* as necessary for our (or others’) legitimate interests, including our interests in providing an innovative personalised, safe and profitable service to our users and partners, unless those interests are overridden by your interests or fundamental rights of freedoms that require protection of personal data. 

You may withdraw consent at any time. Such withdrawal of consent will not affect the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal. 

## How You Exercise Your Right
 Under applicable laws, you have the right to access, rectify, port, and erase your information, as well as the right to restrict and object to certain processing of your information. You also have the right to object to and restrict certain processing of your data. This includes: 

    * the right to object to our processing of your data for direct marketing, which you can exercise by contacting us,
    * the right to object to our processing of your data where we are performing a task in the public interest or pursuing our legitimate interests or those of a third party, and
    * the right to have us delete your personal information.

You may delete your information at any time by contacting us at [optout@libra.org](mailto:optout@libra.org). We will delete all the information we have about you, such as information from cookies and information you have provided us. 

## Data Retention
 We generally retain information until it is no longer necessary to serve the purposes for which it was collected. This is a case-by-case determination that depends on things like the nature of the data, why it is collected and processed, and relevant legal or operational retention needs. 

## Data Transfers 
 We utilize standard contract clauses approved by the European Commission and rely on the European Commission’s [adequacy decisions](https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/data-transfers-outside-eu/adequacy-protection-personal-data-non-eu-countries_en) about certain countries, as applicable, for data transfers from the European Economic Area to the United States and other countries.

## Contact Information
 The data controller responsible for your information is Libra, which you can contact us at:

	Libra Association
	Quai de l'Ile, 13
	1204 Geneva
	SWITZERLAND

 You also have the right to lodge a complaint with your local supervisory authority.

Commit message:

brute rename text in files  Libra->Diem, libra-diem

developers.libra.org/docs/policies/privacy-policy.md, after:

---
id: privacy-policy
title: Privacy Policy
---

<!-- hide the edit button --><style>.edit-page-link {display: none !important; visibility: hidden !important;}</style>

 This website is owned and operated by the Diem Association (“Diem,” “us,” “our”). This Data Policy applies to the Diem Association website (“Website”). This Data Policy describes our practices for handling your information collected in connection with this Website.

## Collection of Information
 When you interact with us through our Website, we may collect or receive the following of information:

* _**Information you provide directly to us.**_ We may collect information from you such as your name and email address, such as when you subscribe for more information on the Website. 
* _**Information we collect automatically.**_ We may collect certain information automatically when you use our Website, such as your Internet protocol (IP) address, mobile device identifier, browser type, operating system, Internet service provider, pages that you visit before and after using the Website, the date and time of your visit, information about the links you click and pages you view within the Website, and other standard server log information. We may use cookies, pixel tags, local shared objects, and similar technologies to automatically collect this information. By using the Website, you consent to our use of cookies and similar technologies. More information on our use of cookies can be found in our Cookies Policy.


## How We Use Information
 Information collected by our Website will help inform the design and implementation of Website. We may also use information you provide us to operate and improve the functionality of the Website. 

## How We Share Information 
 We may share your information with certain third parties as set forth below: 

* _**Authorized third-party vendors and service providers.**_ We share your information with third-party vendors and service providers who support our website, such as by providing technical infrastructure services, business analytics, and data processing. 
* _**Partners.**_ We may share information with the entities that make up the Diem Association (“Partners”). For more information about our Partners, look at the “Association” tab. 
* _**Legal and safety purposes.**_ We may disclose information to respond to subpoenas, court orders, legal process, law enforcement requests, legal claims or government inquiries, detect fraud, and to protect and defend the rights, interests, safety, and security of the website, our affiliates, owner, users, or the public.
* _**Business transfers.**_ We may share your information in connection with a substantial corporate transaction, such as the sale of a website, a merger, consolidation, asset sale, or in the unlikely event of bankruptcy. 
* _**With your consent.**_ We may share information for any other purposes disclosed to you at the time we collect the information and pursuant to your consent. 

If you access third-party services, such as Facebook, Google, or Twitter, through the Website to share information about your experience on the Website with others, these services are outside our control. These third-party services may be able to collect information about you, including information about your activity on the Website, and they may notify your connections on the third-party services about your use of the Website, in accordance with their own privacy policies. 

## Our Legal Bases For Processing Information
 We rely on a variety of legal bases to process data, including: 

* as necessary to fulfill our Terms;
* consistent with your consent, which you can revoke at any time;
* as necessary to comply with our legal obligations;
* to protect your vital interests, or those of others;
* as necessary in the public interest; and
* as necessary for our (or others’) legitimate interests, including our interests in providing an innovative personalised, safe and profitable service to our users and partners, unless those interests are overridden by your interests or fundamental rights of freedoms that require protection of personal data. 

You may withdraw consent at any time. Such withdrawal of consent will not affect the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal. 

## How You Exercise Your Right
 Under applicable laws, you have the right to access, rectify, port, and erase your information, as well as the right to restrict and object to certain processing of your information. You also have the right to object to and restrict certain processing of your data. This includes: 

    * the right to object to our processing of your data for direct marketing, which you can exercise by contacting us,
    * the right to object to our processing of your data where we are performing a task in the public interest or pursuing our legitimate interests or those of a third party, and
    * the right to have us delete your personal information.

You may delete your information at any time by contacting us at [optout@diem.org](mailto:optout@diem.org). We will delete all the information we have about you, such as information from cookies and information you have provided us. 

## Data Retention
 We generally retain information until it is no longer necessary to serve the purposes for which it was collected. This is a case-by-case determination that depends on things like the nature of the data, why it is collected and processed, and relevant legal or operational retention needs. 

## Data Transfers 
 We utilize standard contract clauses approved by the European Commission and rely on the European Commission’s [adequacy decisions](https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/data-transfers-outside-eu/adequacy-protection-personal-data-non-eu-countries_en) about certain countries, as applicable, for data transfers from the European Economic Area to the United States and other countries.

## Contact Information
 The data controller responsible for your information is Diem, which you can contact us at:

	Diem Association
	Quai de l'Ile, 13
	1204 Geneva
	SWITZERLAND

 You also have the right to lodge a complaint with your local supervisory authority.
