developers.libra.org/docs/policies/security.md, before:

---
id: security
title: Reporting Vulnerabilities
---

This document outlines security procedures and general policies for the Libra project.

> **Note**: As Libra Core is currently in the prototype stage and does not power a blockchain with a cryptocurrency that has real-world value, our security procedures are not fully in place. We will release a more complete disclosure policy prior to the launch of the mainnet.

## Reporting a Bug

The Libra team and community take all security bugs in the Libra project
seriously to ensure the security of the Libra Blockchain.


Please report security bugs on [Libra’s Bug Bounty with HackerOne](https://hackerone.com/libra).

You can also report security bugs by emailing us directly at [security@libra.org](mailto:security@libra.org).

Thank you for improving the security of the Libra Blockchain! Your efforts and responsible disclosure are appreciated, and every effort will be made to acknowledge your contributions in a timely manner.

## Comments on This Policy

If you have suggestions on how this process could be improved, please submit a pull request.

Commit message:

brute rename text in files  Libra->Diem, libra-diem

developers.libra.org/docs/policies/security.md, after:

---
id: security
title: Reporting Vulnerabilities
---

This document outlines security procedures and general policies for the Diem project.

> **Note**: As Diem Core is currently in the prototype stage and does not power a blockchain with a cryptocurrency that has real-world value, our security procedures are not fully in place. We will release a more complete disclosure policy prior to the launch of the mainnet.

## Reporting a Bug

The Diem team and community take all security bugs in the Diem project
seriously to ensure the security of the Diem Blockchain.


Please report security bugs on [Diem’s Bug Bounty with HackerOne](https://hackerone.com/diem).

You can also report security bugs by emailing us directly at [security@diem.org](mailto:security@diem.org).

Thank you for improving the security of the Diem Blockchain! Your efforts and responsible disclosure are appreciated, and every effort will be made to acknowledge your contributions in a timely manner.

## Comments on This Policy

If you have suggestions on how this process could be improved, please submit a pull request.
