# V4.3.3 upgrade

- build all binaries (includes stdlib)
- submit vote for upgrade

# Release notes

CLI:

* added checkup tool to analyze 0L.toml file for misconfigurations (#595)
* Query payment events from cli (#591)
* 29d96028fc Restore to use tar instead of unzip (#578)
* 117a35778a Passing source-path from command line argument to init of swarm (init_cmd.rs), so it can be written into 0L.toml (#569)

Changes to Move stdlib:

* a52aa6bf57 Migration framework (#588): epoch reconfigurations can optionally migrate to new data stuctures
* a52aa6bf57 Wallet types (#588): explicit Slow wallet on all accounts. Opt-in CommunityWallet, for receiving AutoPay. CommunityWallet has opt-in covenant for reviewable transactions. 
* 4eca03bcb5  Audit validators and web-monitor (#602). Checks that validators have all configurations up to date to enter the validator set. Includes check on Operator and Autopay configurations. Web monitor displays the status.

TXS:

* 9a1f19b76a Add key rotation subcommand in TXS (#594)

Web:

* 0999ae444f Web monitor: fixes cache issues and adds improvements (#579)
* 429ba9f24c [Web monitor] updates autopay messages (#577)

Miner:

* db77926044 Fixed: Tx panics should not stop miner (#520) (#566)

Misc:

aa84674719 makefile patches to confirm installation is in correct path. Remove last references of sudo (#574)


### Config Compatibility

No changes to 0L.toml, key_store.json, or node.yaml

Changes to web-monitor static files


# Checkout and Build v4.3.3

checkout:
```
git fetch && git checkout release-v4.3.3 -f && git pull
```

build (this includes Move stdlib):
```
# this installs to $HOME/bins
make bins install
```

# Submit upgrade vote.


The step above also builds stdlib and created the upgrade bundle.

You can check the hash with:

```
sha256sum language/diem-framework/staged/stdlib.mv
```

v4.3.3 hash is: `84c2f5e9527dcd1d4a635dd2103f7a4e98ed46451841fa84febf33c6c5cfe934`


Send the upgrade transaction:

```
txs oracle-upgrade
```

# Update web-monitor files

```
# if web folder does not exist
mkdir ~/.0L/web-monitor
cp -r ol/cli/web-monitor/public/* ~/.0L/web-monitor
```

# Restart your services

`ol start` is the preferred method for orchestrating services

start the pilot mode:
```
ol start
```

#  If not using pilot mode:

## node:
```
libra-node --config ~/.0L/validator.node.yaml

```
## miner:

Note: `--is-operator` is a recent feature, allowing mining to be done with operator keys signing txs (instead of owner key, which required mnemonic).


enter `tmux`
```
tmux a
```

start miner:

```
miner --is-operator start 
```

## monitor:

Make sure your port `3030` is open to the public. `-c` makes health checks run continuously.

Start monitor, and keep running health checks:

```
ol serve -c
```