# v4.3.0 upgrade

This is a Chain upgrade only (Move stdlib). Node upgrades will follow with v4.3.1.

## TL;RD do this:
```
> cd libra

> git fetch && git checkout v4.3.0 -f

> make stdlib

> txs oracle-upgrade
```

## Summary
This is a minor upgrade due to changes in stdlib, some which break apis, see semantics: (../../devs/versioning_semantics.md)

As such Part 1 will be the voting and upgrading of stdlib. And Part 2 will be upgrading tooling.

These steps are only for CURRENT validators of the validator set.

## Includes

* changes to stdlib, which require a hot upgrade (network does not stop).

* no changes to libra-node. Libra node 4.2.8 is compatible with stdlib 4.3.0, while a transition occurs.

* cli tool changes: `onboard` is separate from `miner`, replacing `miner val-wizard`.

* web-monitor: serves node and network status on :3030


### What happens next:

Do this from the machine which you will be building the Move `stdlib`, and voting (which may be your node, but also optionally your local workstation). You will need to enter a mnemonic for the upgrade vote.

- compile the OL Move stdlib.
- Submit the compiled file to network, thus "voting" for that upgrade.

# Checkout and Build v4.3.0

```
# checkout

> git fetch && git checkout v4.3.0 -f

```

NOTE: You will NOT build the binaries during Part 1, to prevent incompatibility until the `stdlib` is actually upgraded.

# Build stdlib

```
# simply run:

> make stdlib

# output

Creating staged/stdlib.mv for upgrade oracle ... (took 1.624s)
sha256sum language/diem-framework/staged/stdlib.mv
79a3878e7291194dcebf6afc134e62a011fadb8651e8647d653beb6f7c0710ff  language/stdlib/staged/s
tdlib.mv
```

### Check the sha256 for stdlib.mv

The command above will output the sha256 hash.

The hash should equal:

`79a3878e7291194dcebf6afc134e62a011fadb8651e8647d653beb6f7c0710ff`


###### Alternative to `make stdlib` command:


```
# First build the Move libs

> cargo run --release -p stdlib

# Then you MUST also package it as a payload

> cargo run --release -p stdlib -- --create-upgrade-payload

# check hash
> sha256sum language/diem-framework/staged/stdlib.mv
```

### Submit the upgrade transaction

```
# using `txs` app:

> txs oracle-upgrade

```

## Troubleshooting

### "Permission denied"

```
The application panicked (crashed).
Message:  file should open read only: Os { code: 13, kind: PermissionDenied, message: "Permission denied" }
Location: txs/src/commands/oracle_upgrade_cmd.rs:21
```

The `txs` app is looking in 0L.toml for the path to the stdlib compile.

The toml has by default `stdlib_bin_path = "/root/libra/language/diem-framework/staged/stdlib.mv"` which may differ on your machine.

To resolve you can either: 

1) Update 0L.toml

2) Set file explicitly `txs oracle-upgrade -f [path to stdlib]`