# ADR 001 0L Miner


## Context:
The 0L network needs a permissionless, non-monetary Sybil resistance mechanism to bootstrap the network.

We desire the mechanism to capture intentionality and interest in the project rather than capital in existing mining equipment.

Ultimately a permissionless blockchain network is a social consensus automation mechanism. Proofs of Work are simply inputs and don’t deterministically define the network membership.

Additional context: [Proof-of-Work For BFT Weight Assignment](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rRdLwU8sdvmhHFnbjiZmxEcbYq9YS9fIzvfxs7iGdUE/edit#heading=h.84qa7nvmik57) 

## VDF selection

We selected an implementation of Wesolowski proofs on class groups as implemented for the Chia VDF implementation contest by team at POA Network. Wesolowski proofs are one of two VDFs based on groups of unknown order discovered concurrently in 2018. Pietrzak proofs are the alternative. Wesolowski Proofs are faster to verify while Pietrzak are faster to prove. The Sybil resistance use case isn’t very sensitive to proving time.

## Implementation Notes

We chose the POA implementation because it was implemented in Rust. It has a C dependency in libgmp. The POA code is Apache licensed but  the entire package may be implicitly  GPLd because of libgmp. 

### Risks:
* The implementation has not been audited.
* The implementation did not win the Chia competition and Chia has been observing an unknown even faster implementation on their testiest.
* The biggest risk that due to a security flaw or better implementation it is possible to overtake the users of the reference implementation.

## Prior Art

Dominic Williams proposed an idea back in 2015 called Puzzle Towers that somewhat resembles this idea.

The biggest similarity that Puzzle Towers proposed using a personalized proof work where proof of work accumulates in away that only useful to a single identity . If you want a new identity you have to start from scratch.

[Sybil-resistant Network Identities From Dedicated Hardware - Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eRTAe3szuIoZEloHvRMtZlrU7t2un4UVQ8LarpU3LNk/edit)



## Preimage design

The Preimage is designed as binary data structure with fixed offset fields to enable it to be easily parsed in an smart contract environment where deserializing a self describing or dynamic format like json would be complex.

The foundation or genesis preimage has 4 fields.

1. The 0L address/key value 32 bytes
2. A 64 byte chain-id of zero padded unicode
3. 8  byte number of iterations per VDF block
4. 1024 of a personalization statement.

The Intended use of the personalization statement is to provide additional sybil protection. It essentially represents are an argument to current and future network participants why an identity should included in the network. 