## 5.0.10

Resolving the Move Cache issue (https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/issues/941) will require a two-step upgrade process. 

1. Initially Move changes will be propagated (on chain Hot Upgrade) then, 
2. later Rust changes will be propagated (Node Upgrade). Read about upgrade types here: ol/documentation/network-upgrades/upgrades.md

This version `v5.0.10` is only the first fase; updates the Move stdlib. DO NOT UPDATE NODE BINARIES. You are only required to vote on the new stdlib file.

Changes to the upgrade logic must be in place on the chain, BEFORE any diem-node changes can be deployed. So for safety and clarity, this version 5.0.10 will NOT implement any interfaces to the Move changes.


### TL;DR Deployment

You are only required to submit a vote for the new stdlib file.

The correct way is to build the Move files from source and submit a tx with the file.

```
cd ~/libra
git fetch
git checkout v5.0.10 -f
make stdlib

# now vote on the upgrade with the file compiled above

txs oracle-upgrade -v -f <source>/language/diem-framework/staged/stdlib.mv
```

The lazy way is just to vote with the hash of the stdlib which was proposed.
```
txs oracle-upgrade -v -h <hash>
```

### Summary

Hot Upgrades in the production mainnet run into issues due to Move VM caches not being invalidated when the 0L upgrade is triggered.

### Changes

##### Move Changes
From issue: https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/issues/941

When a "hot upgrade" is taking place the upgrade payload is submitted as a writeset on round 2 of consensus.

If one or more transactions are submitted on this block (which is likely, since at the epoch boundary there is downtime and transactions will accumulate), may be using different mempool caches than what is newly on chain. The solution is to patch the cache.

(https://github.com/diem/diem/blob/main/diem-move/diem-framework/core/sources/DiemConfig.move#L321) is the Move code for emitting the magic reconfiguration event, and here is the Rust code that picks it up. I'm less clear about the exact mechanism for spreading the news of a reconfiguration outward from the latter code, but I believe that it's a mix of the caller looking for these events and ReconfigNotificationListener (depending on the component)


PRs:
https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/942

https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/945

##### Rust Changes

None 

##### Tests

- All continuous integration tests passed.
- QA was performed on Rex Devnet.

##### Compatibility
The Move stdlib and framework changes are backwards compatible with `diem-node` from v5.0.1

