## 5.0.3

The stdlib payload hash for voting is: 

### Summary
v5.0.3 includes bugfixes to the behavior of onboarding end-users and validator accounts

### Changes

##### Move Changes

##### - patch bug in edge cases where proof zero in towerstate was not checked for difficulty

With the new workflow of end-users being able to register without doing a vdf proof, and also being able to initialize TowerState on the submission of the first proof, there's a bug where the checking of the difficulty was being skipped because of an early return. This code changes the order such that difficulty is checked first on commit_state().

https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/818

##### - patch jailed validators able to create validator accounts

There's a minor edge case with validators who are out of the validator set (jailed or otherwise dropped out) should not be able to create new validator accounts even though they might not be rate limited. Check the user onboarding the new validator is actually in the validator set.

https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/819

##### - patch bug on rate limit of validator account creation

Reversion in code from a merge error. The parameters set for rate-limit of validator account creation was set to 13 epochs when slated for mainnet. Previously on the experimental network it was hard-coded to 6. This patch corrects it. This is a one line change.

https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/814

##### Compatibility
The Move framework is backwards compatible with `diem-node` from v5.0.1
### Rust changes
If you have not yet upgraded to v5.0.2 there is a critical upgrade to `diem-node`. It's safe to skip 5.0.2 directly to 5.0.3 if that upgrade was not yet done.

Minor API changes to 0L tooling, for use with deskop client (Carpe) as in previous version.
##### - onboard namespace issue

Tooling for onboarding of validator nodes was producing conflicting namespaces between key_store.json and validator.node.yaml. This was introduced on the migration from Libra codebase to Diem named codebase. https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/804

Not a rust change, but installation script used on curl and bash has naming from the Libra codebase: https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/821


