## 5.0.4
This upgrade has changes to the network bytecode and user cli tools.

A hot network upgrade is required before the tools can be used. [Read about network upgrades.](../documentation/network-upgrades/stdlib_hot_upgrade.md)

The stdlib payload hash for voting is: 4fc1070c0a7442cb14949b5bc6e534e7c0c2daeee57da03c479b21a49975f418

### Summary
v5.0.4 includes new tools (transaction scripts and cli tools) to interface with the Wallet module. The scripts enable "community wallets" to send payments to "slow wallets".

### Changes
##### Move Changes
##### - Community wallet transfer transaction script 

Background on Community Wallet transfers: 

Community wallets do not use the normal balance transfer tools avaiable to end-user wallets, or slow wallets; They have a purpose-built transfer mechanism. Transactions are not immediate, they are initially "proposed" and after 3 epochs (days) the transaction will post. This allows time for reviewers of the wallet (the accounts in the validator set normally) to evaluate the transaction. Each veto by a wallet reviewer/validator adds one extra epoch/day of review time. With sufficient vetos (2/3rds of validators) the transfer proposal gets rejected. 

This logic was already implemented in the state machine (Wallet.move module), however initiating a transfer as a community wallet, was not possible because the cli tools and API to execute the transaction were not yet implemented. This change creates the Move (tranaction script) and Rust (TXS app subcommand).

https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/859


##### Tests

- A functional test was created for the Move tx scriopt.

- An integration test for command line tools was created ./ol/integraion-tests/test-tx-tools.mk

- QA of the transfer functionality was conducted on Devnet.
##### Compatibility
The Move framework changes are backwards compatible with `diem-node` from v5.0.1
### Rust changes
Changes are isolated to ./ol/txs transaction sending tool, not to any consensus modules.

NOTE: If you have not yet upgraded to previous versions (e.g. v5.0.2) there is a critical upgrade to `diem-node`. It's safe to skip 5.0.2 directly to 5.0.4 if that upgrade was not yet done.


