## 5.0.2

The stdlib payload hash for voting is: 15e0a82fa161991f439f344d8184326b51f978a49d62dc253b1ba181aad28bc8

### Summary
v5.0.2 includes bugfixes to the behavior of onboarding in edge-cases.

### Changes

##### Move Changes

##### - upgrading from end-user to validator user

Once an end-user has created an account, and has begun registering a Delay Tower, that user has the option of upgrading that account to a validator account. This was an edge case which the account creations scripts were not handling correctly. And the end-user was not able ultimately to upgrade an account. The error given was that the account already existed on chain.

This upgrade creates the appropriate checks: whether the account exists or not, and if should be upgraded.  The patches happend on both the DiemAccount.move module, as well as the ol_account.move transaction scripts. 

Verification:

Further functional tests were included in testsuite.

QA of this feature was also conducted on Rex TestNet.

Relevant source:

language/diem-framework/0L/DiemAccount.move

language/diem-framework/0L_transaction_scripts/ol_account.move


##### - patch bug on TowerState genesis proof submission.
V5.0.1 introduced a bug in an edge-case of account createion. End-users that had created accounts by coin transfer and subsequently started committing a Delay Tower, were not having the proof zero checked against the account address for uniqueness.

Verification:

Functional tests were patched: language/move-lang/functional-tests/tests/0L/tower_state/state_not_initialized.move 

QA was conducted on Rex TestNet.

Relevant source:
language/diem-framework/0L/TowerState.move

##### All Files Changed In this Upgrade
language/diem-framework/0L/TowerState.move
language/diem-framework/0L_transaction_scripts/ol_account.move

##### Compatibility
The Move framework is backwards compatible with `diem-node` from v5.0.1

##### Relevant pull requests
Onboarding patches (#788) 
https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/commit/3b2e34cb794ca3f4a7da8e0b1a4e3b211e8d7759

Patch validator upgrade (#794)
https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/commit/647e6c21fd6ed22d5649fbaf6d5a9bc9601389bd

Patch towerstate genesis proof (#791)
https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/commit/faebc4f6aa1e10479ff7f3df6757b42ad4454f92

Patch account script for val upgrade (#796)
https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/commit/2f67d49e4660170aa4822f23604d3b4c23385858

### Rust changes

Minor API changes to 0L tooling, for use with deskop client (Carpe)