## 5.0.7


Same as 5.0.6 this is an upgrade with patches mitigate an ongoing network incident. More details here: https://hackmd.io/KY7VklgAR72Bg7ETTQZAxA

These changes do not affect Move code (no changes to system state or policies). It only upgrades `diem-node`

#### TL;DR

Just update binaries to use patches.

```

# install new binaries
cd ~/libra
git fetch
git checkout v5.0.7 -f
make bins install
<stop diem-node>
<restart diem-node>

```

### Summary

TBD

### Changes

##### Move Changes
None

##### Rust Changes
##### - Harden the mempool against a flood of new txs by discarding them earlier in validation 


This change forces the shared-mempool incoming tx processing to discard any transactions with an advanced sequence number (in the future). This is to mitigate the incident described here: https://hackmd.io/KY7VklgAR72Bg7ETTQZAxA

So here is the logic to this change,

https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/blob/main/mempool/src/shared_mempool/tasks.rs#L225-L248 rejects old sequence numbers but not new sequence numbers.

but
https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/blob/main/mempool/src/shared_mempool/tasks.rs#L252-L258 but the new sequence numbers get rejected here which is a more expensive validation.

Rejecting them earlier should help preserve resources

One thing about this patch is that we expect -- because it only blocks txs with newer sequence numbers from other validators -- we expect that newer sequence numbers will sit in the mempool of the node that received them until the state has been updated

What this regresses is the ability of a block proposer to propose sequential sequence numbers from a single account.

This more useful for a payments use case than current 0L use cases. We can revert this when we pull in performance work from upstream

https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/922


##### Tests

- All continuous integration tests passed.
- The diem-code was tested on a "Canary rollout" to three production nodes that were both synced and out of sync.

##### Compatibility
The Move framework changes are backwards compatible with `diem-node` from v5.0.1

### Rust changes
#### Diem Node
Changes to `diem-node` is compatible with on-chain state from `v5.0.5`.
