## 5.2.0

This upgrade impacts Carpe, Stdlib, and Node binaries.

Upgrade steps:
1. Roll out Carpe updates to users (backwards compatible with 5.1.2 chain)
2. Vote on Move stdlib upgrade
3. Validator operators deploy new binaries (backwards compatible with 5.1.2 chain)
4. Validators update config files


## Deployment
```
git fetch && git checkout release-v5.2.0 -f && git pull

```

### Vote on stdlib

The stdlib payload hash for voting is: 2a8ae2cdd6f9cb941332d521380a681785f406af4e2b788da6132d46f7524172


Execute a lazy vote from a validator in the validator set with:
`txs oracle-upgrade --vote -h 2a8ae2cdd6f9cb941332d521380a681785f406af4e2b788da6132d46f7524172`

Or build from source and vote:
```
cd libra
make stdlib
txs oracle-upgrade --vote -f <path to stdlib.mv shown above>

```

### Upgrade Node

#### Install Binaries

The usual upgrade can be done from source with
```
# stop your services. Note: Use ctrl+c instead of killall which may cause db corruption
cd libra
make bins install
```

#### Update config files
You will want to use new validator.node.yaml, which is universal -- no need to switch between fullnode and validator mode. It also includes some minor parameter changes.

Write the new validator yaml file is a single command.
```
ol init --val

```

v5.2.0 standardizes the chain_id field of the 0L.toml file. You may have an issue starting `ol` and `tower`. Edit the 0L.toml file and set the chain_id to "MAINNET".

```
[chain_info]
chain_id = "MAINNET"

```

#### Restarting the validator
`ol start` is now considered stable. It is a daemon that you can use the start tool to manage the different services (web monitor, tower, diem-node) and restart them. Assuming you can start your node once normally (`diem-node -f ~/.0L/validator.node.yaml`) without errors, you can attempt to use it.

It's one command:
```
ol start

# In another terminal you can tail the logs
tail -f ~/.0L/logs/node.log
tail -f ~/.0L/logs/tower.log
```

### Summary

### Changes

##### Move Changes

New Tower Proof Design, preparing for dynamic VDFs
- Every epoch can have a different VDF difficulty. Currently it is fixed, futurely it can use a simple RNG based on the epoch's past VDF proofs.
- The first (genesis) proof of an account always has a fixed parameter.
- On each epoch there is a grace on the 1st proof which can alternatively use the previous epoch's difficulty or the ajusted difficulty.
- New datastructures so related Rust tools can retrieve the current proof parameters from chain.

A number of fixes to Validator Set managment
- Fixes to implementation of selecting validator set, where the validator set can only add a limited number of of unproven nodes. This behavior was erratic on 5.1.3.
- Reduces the Signing threshold from 5% of blocks to 3%. https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/1152
- Reduces the Voucher threshold from 4 to 2.
- Validators do not get kicked out of the validator set if their vouchers fall out. The vouch mechanism only checks on joining initially or re-joining after jailed.
Adds jailing implementation. Validators must unjail themselves if they get kicked out of validator set. - This is because unattended nodes are rejoining validator set with mining, though they need attention.

##### Rust Changes

Node:
- Init tools creates a unified node yaml file so validators don't need to switch between fullnode and validator node mode.
- Node will not panic if safety rules are not initialized. This was an issue for using unified validator.node.yaml file https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra/pull/1153
- `ol start` patches to become more reliable.

Tower:
- changes to allow for dynamic VDF proofs
- allows tower to restart from latest proof on chain. This way users do not need to download all tower proofs from explorer if they lose their local proofs.

Txs
- Tool for unjailing self, or unjailing a vouchee. `txs val-set --unjail` or `txs val-set --unjail --vouchee <address>`

